Embassy of India 

 -->

 Sitemap 

 Contact 

 Feedback 

 Skip to main Content 

 A + 
 A 
 A - 
 A 
 A -->

 English

 Nepali

 A + 
 A 
 A - 
 A 
 A 

 Noc to travel to 3rd country 

 Embassy 

 Ambassador Profile 

 Holidays Embassy 

 Working Hours 

 Previous Ambassadors 

 About India Nepal Relations 

 Emergency Telephone Number of Indian Missions/Posts for Grievances 

 Links 

 Right to Information 

 Consular 

 Consular Services 

 Emergency Contact Numbers 

 Travel to Nepal 

 Valid Travel Documents 
 Emergency Travel ID 
 Entry of Indian Registered Vehicles in Nepal 
 Kailash Mansrovar yatra Via Nepal 
 Mountaineering Expeditions in Nepal 

 Passport Services 

 Fees for Consular and Passport Services 

 Passport Services 

 Visa 

 Download Forms 

 Notice - Visa & Passport 

 Medical Degree Verification 

 Important Notice for OCI or PIO Card Holders 

 Renunciation of Indian Citizenship 

 Registration of Indian Students in Nepal 

 Registration For Indians In Nepal 

 FAQ on Marital Disputes 

 Advisory regarding NOC to Travel to 3rd Country 

 Development Partnership 

 Brief on Development Partnership with Nepal 

 Development Partnership Dashboard 

 Development Partnership - Downloads 

 About Reconstruction Wing 

 Contact 

 Culture 

 About Press, Information and Culture 

 Lifestyle for Environment 

 ICCR in Nepal (Swami Vivekananda Cultural Center) 

 Contacts 

 B. P. Koirala Foundation 

 About B. P. Koirala Foundation 
 Board Members 
 Structure of the Foundation 
 Objective 
 Activities 

 Nepal Bharat Library 

 About Nepal Bharat Library 
 Services Offered 
 Membership Requirements 
 Membership Application Form 
 Library Hours 
 Contact Address 

 Contact 

 Defence 

 About Defence 

 Military Pension Branch 

 PPO Pokhara 
 PPO Dharan 
 PPO Kathmandu 
 Important Information to Pensioners 
 Forms for Download 

 Welfare Branch 

 Record Office Indian Embassy 

 ECHS Branch 

 Contact 

 Education/Scholarships 

 About Scholarship 

 About ITEC 

 What's new 

 Scholarship 
 ITEC 
 Result of Scholarship Schemes 
 Others 

 Archives 

 Scholarship 
 ITEC 

 How to apply 

 Scholarship 
 ITEC 

 General Instructions for Scholarship Schemes 

 Medical Degree Verification 

 Advisory for Indian Students seeking admission in medical colleges/univerisities in Nepal 

 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 

 Sampark Alumni Network 

 Contact 

 Media 

 Supplement 

 Republic Day 
 Independence Day 

 News 

 Alerts 

 Tenders 

 Newsletter 

 Events/Photo Gallery 

 Speeches 

 Press Releases 

 Commerce Wing 

 Commerce Wing Brief 

 Business Opportunities in Nepal 

 A handbook for Indian Investors in Nepal 

 Business Climate Survey for Indian Companies in Nepal 

 Complaints on Trade Disputes 

 Contact 

 India-Nepal Startup Partnership Network 

 Economic Wing 

 About Economic Wing 

 Downloads 

 Vehicle Permit Fees 

 Contact 

 Contacts 

 -->

 Entry of Indian Registered Vehicles in Nepal 

 Home 

 Consular 
 Travel to Nepal 

 Entry of Indian Registered Vehicles in Nepal 

 ENTRY OF INDIAN REGISTERED VEHICLES IN NEPAL 

 Indian registered vehicles such as two wheelers, motorcars, vans, jeeps, trucks, tractors, lorries, etc. are allowed to be temporarily imported into Nepal on payment of Customs Duty. 

 Indian registered vehicles are allowed to stay in Nepal for a total of 30 days only in a calendar year and cannot stay in Nepal for more than 30 days in all in a year, even on payment of charges. 

 Indian registered vehicles, including two wheelers, can visit the nearest municipal area/market in Nepal for a day long visit without payment of any Customs duty. However, the vehicle owners are required to register their vehicle at the Nepalese border check post and obtain a ‘Day Pass/Challan’. 

 If any Indian registered vehicle enters Nepal on a ‘Day Pass’, then it must return back to India on the same day and while returning back, the Pass has to be compulsorily returned back to Nepal Customs (Bhansar). 

 The Indian registered vehicles going beyond the nearest Nepali town or for staying overnight in Nepal are required to register the entry of vehicles for the specific number of days on payment of charges varying from NRs. 100/- to 500/- per day depending on the type of vehicle. 

 The vehicle owners must ensure that at the time of entering into Nepal, they obtain the pass for correct number of days of their stay in Nepal and pay the charges accordingly. 

 The vehicles with ‘Pass’ issued for specific duration must exit Nepal before the expiry of the 'Pass' and then it may re-enter Nepal on a new 'Pass', subject to the overall limit of 30 days in a year. 

 If due to any reason the Indian registered vehicle has to overstay in Nepal, the vehicle owner should immediately approach the nearest Nepalese Customs Office (Bhansar) for extension of period of the 'Pass'. The extension must be sought before the expiry of the existing 'Pass'. In Kathmandu, the extension of pass can be done at Nepal Customs office at Tribhuvan international Airport Cargo complex. 

 It is important to note that the Pass/Challan issued by the Nepal Customs should be available for inspection all the time by any authority like Police and the Pass should be surrendered to the Nepali Customs at the time of exit from Nepal. 

 It is important to note Indian registered vehicles caught in Nepalese territory without ‘Pass’ or without valid ‘Pass’ are treated as having been illegally smuggled into Nepal and invite very harsh action from authorities. Such vehicles are seized and confiscated by the authorities and later on auctioned by the Nepal Customs. 

 Although there exists some provisions for release of Indian registered vehicles on payment of heavy fines in certain circumstances, where the vehicle which has entered into Nepal without getting a pass, or where the ‘Pass’ has got expired, it has been observed that such provisions are very rarely used and in most of the cases Indian registered vehicles are seized. 

 DISCLAIMER:- 
 The aforesaid information is only for guidance of owners of the Indian vehicles entering into Nepal and should not be construed as the exact legal position. For detailed information on provisions related import of vehicles into Nepal, latest Nepal Customs Tariff available at www.customs.gov.np may please be referred to. 

 +

 As close neighbors, India and Nepal share unique ties of friendship and cooperation characterized by an open border and deep-rooted people-to-people contacts of kinship and culture. 

 amb[dot]kathmandu[at]mea[dot]gov[dot]in 

 Important Link
 -->

 Total Visitors: 10633519 

 Page last updated on : 04/05/2026 

 -->

 Terms & Conditions 

 Privacy Policy 

 Copyright Policy 

 Hyperlinking Policy 

 Accessibility Statement 

 Help 

 2018 Embassy of India, Kathmandu, Nepal. All Rights Reserved. 

 Designed & Developed by 

 ADG Online Solutions Pvt Ltd