| The National Trust for Nature Conservation (NTNC)
 Skip to main content
 info@ntnc.org.np
 +977-1-5253571, 5253573 (Central Office)
 Central Zoo E-Ticket
 +977-1-5528323, 5528324 (Central Zoo)
Tourist - Entry PermitFor Trekking AgencyFor Individual
 Search
 Menu
AboutThe National Trust for Nature ConservationMission Statement and Guiding PrinciplesNepal : People and NatureAchievements of NTNCStrengths of NTNCGoverning Board of TrusteesOur TeamProjectsAnnapurna Conservation Area Project (ACAP)Manaslu Conservation Area Project (MCAP)Gaurishankar Conservation Area Project (GCAP)Central ZooBiodiversity Conservation Center (BCC)Bardia Conservation Program (BCP)Shuklaphanta Conservation Program (SCP)Koshi Conservation Center (KCC)Donor-Funded ProjectsThematic AreasSpeciesProtected Areas and EcosystemsConservation EconomyEducation, Research and KnowledgeClimate ChangeCross-cuttingPublicationsAccountabilityInformation DisclosureCompliance and EthicsRedressal Mechanism
 First comprehensive report of snow leopard population in Nepal
 KNOW MORE...
 Notices
 Procurement Notice LOI for procurement of 4 WD Double Cab Pickup Vehicle
 Management NoticePress Release
 Management NoticeContract Awarded for Upgrading of Visitor Center
 Procurement NoticeSupply, Delivery, Installation and Commissioning of Solar Fencing in Koshi Tappu Wildlife Reserve (Rhino Sanctuary)
 Procurement NoticeSupply, Delivery, Installation and Commissioning of Solar Fencing Wall, Jhapa
 View all notices
 News
30 Mar, 2026
NTNC Chairman assumes his office
Read More
26 Dec, 2025
NTNC Welcomed Hon’ble Minister for Forests and Environment
10 Dec, 2025
Strategic Dialogue on Water Conservation and Innovation
21 Aug, 2025
Field gears and equipment for frontline staff handed over to DNPWC
 View all News
 Thematic Areas
Protected Areas and Ecosystems
Conservation Economy
Climate Change
Environmental Education, Research and Knowledge Management
Cross-cutting
Species
 Our Projects
Annapurna Conservation Area Project (ACAP)Launched in 1986, the Annapurna Conservation Area Project (ACAP) is the largest undertaking of NTNC. It is also the first Conservation Area and largest Protected Area in Nepal. It covers an area of 7,629 sq. km. and is home to over 100,000 residents of different cultural and linguistic groups.
Manaslu Conservation Area Project (MCAP)With the successful experience of Integrated Conservation and Development Programme (ICDP) in ACAP, NTNC started working in the Manaslu region from the beginning of 1997 as the Manaslu Ecotourism Development Project with funding support of the Government of Nepal and the Asian Development Bank under the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation’s Second Tourism Infrastructure Development
Gaurishankar Conservation Area Project (GCAP)The Government of Nepal, through a Nepal Gazette notice dated July 19, 2010 (Section 60, Number 14, Part 5, 2067/04/03 B.S.), has entrusted the management responsibility of Gaurishankar Conservation Area to the National Trust for Nature Conservation (NTNC) for 20 years.
Central ZooIn 1995, Government of Nepal entrusted the management of Nepal’s Central Zoo, the only zoo in Nepal, located at Jawalakhel in the Kathmandu Valley to NTNC for 30 years.
Biodiversity Conservation Center (BCC)In 1989, after Smithsonian Institution,USA completed its assignment in the Chitwan National Park (CNP), Nepal and handed over the Nepal Terai Ecology Project to NTNC, the Trust established the Nepal Conservation Research and Training Center (NCRTC) to conduct biological research and monitoring of flora and fauna in the lowland (Terai) protected areas of Nepal.
Bardia Conservation Program (BCP)NTNC’s involvement in Bardia started in 1986 with the translocation of the first batch of rhinoceros from Chitwan National Park. The Bardia Conservation Program (BCP) was launched in 1994 as a regular project of NTNC focusing on biodiversity research and sustainable community development. BCP has been promoting biodiversity conservation in and around Bardia National Park (BNP) by strengthening the capacity of local institutions responsible for natural resource management.
Shuklaphanta Conservation Program (SCP)NTNC started its conservation activities, mainly wildlife research and monitoring, in the Shuklaphanta National Park (ShNP) in 1999. Regular activities are being carried out since 2002. The main objective of the Shuklaphanta Conservation Program (SCP) is to monitor and conduct research on the natural resources.
Koshi Conservation Center (KCC)Koshi Conservation Center (KCC) is NTNC's eight and most recent project under operation. It was set up as independent project officially from September 2021. Prior to that, the Trust's Koshi-related operations were managed from its Biodiversity Conservation Center (NTNC-BCC) office in Sauraha, Chitwan.
Annapurna Conservation Area Project (ACAP)
Manaslu Conservation Area Project (MCAP)
Gaurishankar Conservation Area Project (GCAP)
Central Zoo
Biodiversity Conservation Center (BCC)
Bardia Conservation Program (BCP)
Shuklaphanta Conservation Program (SCP)
Koshi Conservation Center (KCC)
 Donor Projects
 NTNC uses science and community values to discover and understand the natural world. This knowledge helps us engage and inspire decision makers, communities, and millions of supporters to take action with us to protect the wilderness and biodiversity we all care about. The donor community has been an important pillar of support in the impact we strive to create.
Soap2day offers a diverse collection of genres, ensuring every viewer can find something that suits their taste & watch free movies online.
 1xbet Nepal App provides seamless access to a wide range of casino games and sports betting options, all in one convenient platform. With its user-friendly interface, the 1xbet nepal app ensures a premium mobile gaming experience.
 Experience the thrill at https://khelo-star.in/ ! Play your favorite casino games, enjoy exciting bonuses, and win big online. Your ultimate gaming destination.
 Quotex – your gateway to efficient trading. Enjoy intuitive tools, real-time analysis, and a seamless user experience.
Badimalika-Ramaroshan High Altitude Ecosystem Conservation Project
Community engagement against poaching and IWT in Sudurpaschhim Province, Nepal
Fostering human-elephant coexistence: Strengthening community tolerance towards wild elephants in the Central Chure-Terai Madhesh Landscape of Nepal
Preventing habitat fragmentation and securing future of the tigers in Nepal through better understanding of tiger behavior and response to roads
Reducing poaching/IWT threats and sustaining the growth of rhinoceros and tiger populations in Chitwan-Parsa complex, Nepal
Conserving biodiversity through community engagement in Gaurishankar Conservation Area, Nepal
Strengthening human tiger co-existence in western terai landscape in Nepal
Control poaching and IWT by strengthening community guardianship in Chitwan
Mainstreaming traditional hunting communities of western Nepal in tiger conservation
Strengthening Community Tolerance Towards Asian Elephants in Western Terai-Arc Landscape of Nepal
Strengthening tiger conservation initiatives in high altitude landscapes of western Nepal
"Discover your bucket list activities, into an unending exploration, that is home to a remarkable diversity." #VisitNepal
Know more
 Complaint / Feedback
 Tell us about any concerns or questions you may have. We are committed to take full response of your grievances and feedbacks as much as we can.Send Your Message
 Contact Info
 info@ntnc.org.np
 +977-1-5253571, 5253573 (Central Office)
 Central Zoo E-Ticket
 +977-1-5528323, 5528324 (Central Zoo)
 Quick links
 About
 Governing Board of Trustees
 Partners
 Our Team
 Contact
 Follow Us
 Facebook
 Twitter
 Youtube
 Subscribe to our newsletter
 Copyright © 2022 NTNC
 Home
 About
 The National Trust for Nature Conservation
 Nepal : People and Nature
 Mission Statement and Guiding Principles
 Achievements of NTNC
 Strengths of NTNC
 Governing Board of Trustees
 Thematic Areas
 Species
 Protected Areas and Ecosystems
 Conservation Economy
 Education, Research and Knowledge
 Climate Change
 Cross-cutting
 Projects
 Our Projects
 Donor-Funded Projects
 Notices
 Management
 Procurement
 Accountability
 Information Disclosure
 Compliance and Ethics
 Redressal Mechanism
 News
 Events
 Publications
 Maps
 Permit System
 Complaint / Feedback
 Our Team
 Contact