Annapurna Conservation Area Project (ACAP) | The National Trust for Nature Conservation (NTNC)
 Skip to main content
 info@ntnc.org.np
 +977-1-5253571, 5253573 (Central Office)
 Central Zoo E-Ticket
 +977-1-5528323, 5528324 (Central Zoo)
Tourist - Entry PermitFor Trekking AgencyFor Individual
 Search
 Menu
AboutThe National Trust for Nature ConservationMission Statement and Guiding PrinciplesNepal : People and NatureAchievements of NTNCStrengths of NTNCGoverning Board of TrusteesOur TeamProjectsAnnapurna Conservation Area Project (ACAP)Manaslu Conservation Area Project (MCAP)Gaurishankar Conservation Area Project (GCAP)Central ZooBiodiversity Conservation Center (BCC)Bardia Conservation Program (BCP)Shuklaphanta Conservation Program (SCP)Koshi Conservation Center (KCC)Donor-Funded ProjectsThematic AreasSpeciesProtected Areas and EcosystemsConservation EconomyEducation, Research and KnowledgeClimate ChangeCross-cuttingPublicationsAccountabilityInformation DisclosureCompliance and EthicsRedressal Mechanism
©Tashi R. Ghale
 View all projects
 Annapurna Conservation Area Project (ACAP)
 Back to top
 Launched in 1986, the Annapurna Conservation Area Project (ACAP) is the largest undertaking of NTNC. It is also the first Conservation Area and largest Protected Area in Nepal. It covers an area of 7,629 sq. km. and is home to over 100,000 residents of different cultural and linguistic groups. ACAP is rich in biodiversity and is a treasure house for 1,226 species of flowering plants, 105 mammals, 523 birds, 40 reptiles and 23 amphibians.
There are several features that make the Annapurna region a unique place in the world. It has the world’s deepest river gorge—Kali Gandaki Gorge, which is 3 miles long and 1.5 miles wide, is a valley with fossils from the Tethys Sea dating 60 million years ago. The region contains among the world’s largest rhododendron forest in Ghorepani. Tilicho lake, located in Manang, north of Annapurna massif, is the world’s highest altitude fresh water lake.
The biological diversity of the Annapurna region is equally rivaled by its cultural diversity. Gurung and Magar are the dominant groups in the south, whereas Thakali, Manange and Loba are dominant in the north. Each of these groups speak their own dialect, and have unique cultures and traditions. Besides, there are also Brahmin, Chhetri and other occupational castes although in comparatively smaller numbers. Hindu, Buddhist and pre-Buddhist religions along with a mixture of all these are prevalent across the region. The local people reside in the 5 districts of 15 rural municipalities of the Annapurna Conservation Area (ACA).
The natural and cultural features of ACA have made it the most popular trekking destination in the country, attracting a majority of the country’s total trekkers. Tourism, over the years, has been firmly established as one of the most important sectors of the local economy. There are over 1,000 lodges, teashops and hundreds of other subsidiary services to cater to the thousands of trekkers, pilgrims and their support staff.
The soaring number of visitors, whose fuel wood consumption is twice more than that of the local people, has exerted immense pressure on forest resources already stressed from the growing local population. Similarly, litter, particularly the wastes produced by trekkers and hoteliers, is another major concern. It is estimated that an average trekking group of 15 people generates about 15 kilos of non-biodegradable and non-burnable garbage in 10 days trek, producing tons of garbage in mountain regions annually.
The multifaceted problems of ACA have been addressed through an integrated, community based conservation and development approach, an experimental model which has been in the vanguard of promoting the concepts of “Conservation Area” through an “Integrated Conservation and Development Programme” approach in the country and abroad. ACAP was first tested as a pilot Programme in the Ghandruk Village Development Committee (VDC) in 1986. After being notified in the Gazette as a “Conservation Area” in 1992, ACAP’s programme covered the entire area.
Additionally, ACA is the first protected area that has allowed local resident to live within the boundaries as well as own their private property and maintain their traditional rights and access to the use of natural resources. It is also the first protected area, which has refrained from using army assistance to protect the dwindling natural resource base on which the region depends. Instead, it invests whatever financial resources available for community development and social capital building in the region. NTNC receives no regular funding support from the government for the operation of ACAP, but has been granted the right to collect entry fees from visiting trekkers. Revenue received from this is then invested back into the region, its resources and its community. Additional funds are also raised from national and international donors to strengthen conservation and development efforts. This is an exemplary achievement of a Non-Government Institution's ability to manage a significant portion of the protected area system in Nepal.
The issue of environmental degradation in high-trek regions is not limited to ecological concerns but also has indirect implications for human health. For example, the depletion of clean water resources and the increase in waste accumulation can lead to conditions that indirectly affect overall well-being, including stress-related and circulatory issues. These factors contribute to broader health challenges, such as the rising need for addressing issues like the treatment of erectile dysfunction in humans, which has been linked to lifestyle and environmental stressors (Source). Sustainable conservation practices, therefore, not only preserve the natural beauty of areas like ACA but also support the long-term health of local and visiting populations. By reducing ecological strain and fostering healthier environments, initiatives like ACAP's Integrated Conservation and Development Programme indirectly promote both environmental and human resilience.
In order to manage ACA more effectively, it has been divided into 7 unit conservation offices: Jomsom, Manang and Lo-Manthang in the trans-Himalayan region and Bhujung, Sikles, Ghandruk, and Lwang on the southern flank of the Annapurna range. The focus of Jomsom, Manang and Ghandruk, which are among the most popular trekking destinations, is on integrated tourism management and other development activities that benefit local communities and the environment. Programme priorities in Bhujung, Sikles and Lwang are poverty alleviation and integrated agriculture development and agro-forestry. Similarly, the focus In Upper Mustang, which came under the jurisdiction of ACA in 1992, the focus has been on managing controlled tourism on a sustainable basis, and promoting heritage conservation which is its major tourist attraction.
Through ACAP, it has been over three decades since NTNC has fulfilled its mandate to promote conservation and prosperity of the Annapurna region, its resources and its peoples. NTNC believes that areas such as the ACA will ultimately have to be managed by the local people themselves in perpetuity. Therefore, the focus is on building local capacity, both at the institutional and individual levels, to meet all the conservation and development aspirations of the people.
 Goal:
"To achieve sustained balance between nature conservation and socio-economic improvement in the Annapurna Conservation Area (ACA) thereby assist National Trust for Nature Conservation in achieving its goal."
Objectives
 Conserve the natural resources of ACA for the benefit of present and future generations.
 Bring sustainable social and economic development to the local people.
 Develop tourism in such a way that it will have minimum negative impact on the natural, socio-cultural and economic environments.
 Related News/Article
26 May, 2025Agreement with NABU for fostering human-snow leopard coexistence
28 Nov, 2024Nepal-China snow leopard knowledge workshop starts
17 May, 2023Interaction with Annapurna Conservation Area's rural municipality chairpersons and Conservation Area Management Committees
 View all News
 Other Projects
Badimalika-Ramaroshan High Altitude Ecosystem Conservation Project
Community engagement against poaching and IWT in Sudurpaschhim Province, Nepal
Fostering human-elephant coexistence: Strengthening community tolerance towards wild elephants in the Central Chure-Terai Madhesh Landscape of Nepal
 View all projects
 Related Publications
November 2025
Herpetofauna of the Annapurna Conservation AreaReports/Books/ProceedingsDownload
April 2025
Status of Snow Leopard Population in Nepal 2025Reports/Books/ProceedingsDownload
December 2024
A pictorial handbook of Orchids of the Annapurna Conservation AreaReports/Books/ProceedingsDownload
 Views all Publications
 Contact Info
 info@ntnc.org.np
 +977-1-5253571, 5253573 (Central Office)
 Central Zoo E-Ticket
 +977-1-5528323, 5528324 (Central Zoo)
 Quick links
 About
 Governing Board of Trustees
 Partners
 Our Team
 Contact
 Follow Us
 Facebook
 Twitter
 Youtube
 Subscribe to our newsletter
 Copyright © 2022 NTNC
 Home
 About
 The National Trust for Nature Conservation
 Nepal : People and Nature
 Mission Statement and Guiding Principles
 Achievements of NTNC
 Strengths of NTNC
 Governing Board of Trustees
 Thematic Areas
 Species
 Protected Areas and Ecosystems
 Conservation Economy
 Education, Research and Knowledge
 Climate Change
 Cross-cutting
 Projects
 Our Projects
 Donor-Funded Projects
 Notices
 Management
 Procurement
 Accountability
 Information Disclosure
 Compliance and Ethics
 Redressal Mechanism
 News
 Events
 Publications
 Maps
 Permit System
 Complaint / Feedback
 Our Team
 Contact