A Sunauli Border Survival Guide With Safety Tips For The India-Nepal Border! Skip to content Unlock Travel Goodies in my FREE Resource Library Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest TikTok Goodreads TRAVEL SHOP START HERE SHOP ABOUT Expand ABOUT THE BLOG CONTACT ME FAQs WORK WITH ME BLOG DESTINATIONS Expand AFRICA Expand EGYPT MOROCCO AMERICAS Expand USA ASIA Expand INDIA INDONESIA JAPAN LAOS MALAYSIA MYANMAR NEPAL NORTH EAST INDIA SINGAPORE SRI LANKA THAILAND VIETNAM EUROPE Expand AUSTRIA BELGIUM BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA CROATIA CZECH REPUBLIC ENGLAND ESTONIA FINLAND FRANCE GERMANY GREECE HUNGARY ICELAND IRELAND KOSOVO LATVIA LITHUANIA MALTA NETHERLANDS NORTH MACEDONIA NORTHERN IRELAND NORWAY POLAND PORTUGAL ROMANIA RUSSIA SCOTLAND SLOVAKIA SLOVENIA SPAIN SWEDEN SWITZERLAND TURKEY WALES MIDDLE EAST Expand JORDAN UAE OCEANIA Expand AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND INTERESTS Expand BLOGGING BOOKS CASTLES & PALACES DARK & OBSCURE FILMING LOCATIONS GAME OF THRONES HARRY POTTER MERLIN MAGIC TRAVEL OUTLANDER SOLO TRAVEL THE WITCHER RESOURCES Expand TRAVEL RESOURCES BLOGGING RESOURCES DIGITAL PLANNING FREE GOODIES START A BLOG Search UNLOCK TRAVEL GOODIES IN MY FREEBIE LIBRARY Search Toggle Menu INDIA · NEPAL A Sunauli Border Survival Guide with Safety Tips for the India-Nepal Border! By Sophie Pearce January 1, 2026 ⋆˙⟡♡︎ This post may contain affiliate links. Please see my disclosure policy for details. Thanks for your support ⋆˙⟡♡︎ 279 shares Share Tweet Pin If you’re backpacking on a budget and can’t afford to fly. Or, if you’re from India and don’t have a passport. Crossing overland from India to Nepal via an overland border is an easy option. Although it does take a lot of your time (depending on where you’re heading from), it’s worth the long journey to save some much-needed dollars (or rupees should we say :P)! I crossed over the Sunauli Border from India to Nepal and vice versa on my recent trip. Although in general the process was meant to be quite simple, it really wasn’t plain sailing! It was long, dreary, dodgy in parts (especially around the border), and more than a little stressful. So, hopefully, my account of things can give you some tips on what time to go, what to avoid, and how to make the process a little simpler for you. Here’s all you need to know about crossing over the Indo-Nepal Sunauli border! The Sunauli Border crossing Table of Contents Toggle How to reach the Sunauli Border in India What are the Sunauli Border opening times? Some practical information about the Sunauli Border Here are some tips to help you avoid scams at the Sunauli Border; Visa requirements for Nepal Visa requirements for India Onward journey from the Sunauli Border into India or Nepal Is travelling overland via the Sunauli Border worth it? Read more of my Indian articles Discover India Read more posts on Nepal Discover Nepal Save this Sunauli Border survival guide for later! How to reach the Sunauli Border in India Getting to the Sunauli Border can be quite a lengthy process from India. Most travellers choose to leave from Varanasi which is around a 10-hour bus journey from the Sunauli border. When you get through the Nepal border, the main cities of Chitwan , Pokhara , and Kathmandu in Nepal are a further 6/7 hours bus journey away (no trains run in Nepal) so it’s quite a long journey to take in one day! I decided to get the new A/C Indo-Nepali ‘friendship’ bus which was a comfortable semi-sleeper Volvo. It’s a direct bus that heads from Varanasi to Kathmandu via Sunauli Border and takes around 15 hours (supposedly). In the end, it actually took around 30 hours which was horrendous, but, as a means to an end. If this is the route you’re planning to take, you can see how to book the bus and more about the journey in my article Related Post: ‘Varanasi to Kathmandu: there is a direct bus!’ Update: It seems that a private company called ‘Asian Shinas Tours and Travels’ has taken over this service starting from mid-February. I did not have any experience with this company. So, make sure to read reviews . This now runs at 10 pm at night from Varanasi bus station. Also, if you’re trying to book too far ahead (let’s say 3 months) you won’t find any buses. You can only book these a few weeks ahead of travel plans. You can also get the train from Varanasi to Gorakhpur which runs daily. From there get a local bus to the Sunauli Border, hop through the Nepal border immigration and then make your way to one of the main cities via the bus stand on the Nepal side (do not book tickets via the Indian side as you could get scammed!). From Nepal, the easiest place to stay is Lumbini if you’re planning to head into India via the Sunauli Border. You can check out the birthplace of Buddha and then make your way nice and early the following day. It’s around 30 km from the Sunauli border. What are the Sunauli Border opening times? The Sunauli border is open 24 hours a day but only for people walking through. So, if you were heading via local buses to the Sunauli border, you can walk through the Sunauli border into Nepal and then catch an onward bus from the bus stand on the Nepal side. I’m not sure what buses will be running at that time at night, however. So, best to go during the daytime to avoid getting stuck. Vehicles have to make it to the Sunauli border by 9.45 pm to be allowed through. Otherwise, you will have to wait until the Sunauli border opens early morning (around 6 am). You can see the queue of truckers below who didn’t make it and were waiting until morning. This was the Sunauli Border when we were walking to the border around 9.30pm at night – super creepy!! Some practical information about the Sunauli Border In a word, the Sunauli Border is dodgy . There is really nothing nice about the place at all. It had a weird vibe, especially at night and it felt like everyone was trying to scam you. It literally is just a void of a town that acts as a throughway for people travelling through. So, I would try to spend as little time here as possible here. Having been here both in the day and at night, the night is definitely the worst! This is where scamming comes out three-fold, random guys approach you as you’re making your way through and it’s just plain creepy *shivers*. Here are some tips to help you avoid scams at the Sunauli Border; Bus travel: If you’re hoping to catch a bus onward into Nepal, do not book this until you’ve passed the Sunauli border and are in Nepal. The Indian side is notorious for scams and selling ‘fake’ bus tickets. Currency Conversions: Be prepared to pay out the nose for your currency to be converted here! You will need US dollars to pay for your Nepali VISA and the exchange rate for these is terrible here. I would try getting some before you reach. Don’t accept any US dollars that are older than 2003 , the Nepal border won’t accept them and these guys on the Indian side of the border will definitely try to give you these. Always have an exchange rate app on your phone and negotiate with these guys. I got Nepali rupees as the rate was better, but I did have to beg the border to let me through playing on the fact they made me change it ;) Rickshaws: A lot of the rickshaw drivers at the Sunauli Border will tell you that there is flooding ahead and give a wealth of excuses as to why you need to get a rickshaw. It’s all not true and the between the Indian and Nepali immigration counters is less than a kilometre. The only reason why I got one on the way back was that the torrential monsoon rains hit and we would be wet through. Hotels: Don’t stay overnight in Sunauli if you can avoid it! I read so much information on how the hotels are awful, the food will give you food poisoning, and about intimidation on buying bus tickets and changing money. I personally would never stay here after having been here. If you do decide to stay (or have to!) don’t venture out at night. Visa requirements for Nepal Always check the Nepal immigration site for requirements for your country. In 2025 the overland VISA costs were; 15 days = $30 USD 30 days = $50 USD 90 days = $125 USD You need US dollars to buy a Visa that is newer than 2003. You can pay in Nepali rupees but you will have to beg them as they don’t usually take them. I also had to pay a little extra but I had no choice. You will also need a passport-sized photograph of yourself for your Visa form. If you don’t have this a photocopy can be arranged on the Indian side. It’s good to note that if you’re from India or a SAARC country, you do not need to go through immigration and can walk straight through. My friend is Indian and when we went through the Sunauli border for my immigration into India, they stopped him and told him that his Indian ID card wasn’t proof of his citizenship only his nationality. Personally, I think they were after some money but with a little ‘oh, we didn’t know’ etc. we got through. My advice would be if you’re all Indian in your group to just head through. Don’t stop. Visa requirements for India You cannot get an Indian Visa overland or on arrival in India. You will need to apply for a tourist/business visa in advance of travel. These can be arranged in Nepal or at home before you go. You will need to get a normal tourist Visa printed on your passport. You can check the Indian immigration website here for requirements. You cannot get an e-Visa for overland travel into India. Both on my way in and out of Sunauli Border Indian immigration, tourists were being advised by Kathmandu airport to head to the Sunauli Border with their e-Visa to get into India. You have to enter the airport that you stated on your e-Visa . The reason for this is that the Sunauli border doesn’t have any technology to take fingerprints and so they cannot stamp you into India without your biometrics. You cannot enter overland into India with an e-Visa. Don’t even try it, it will waste your time and money. After our immigration into India via the Sunauli Border, the rains started pouring in and I had to walk through THAT! The cows didn’t seem to mind :P Onward journey from the Sunauli Border into India or Nepal Once you’re through to Nepal via the Sunauli Border, you can easily catch one of the many buses that are heading to where you want to go. There will be buses headed out to Kathmandu , Pokhara , Chitwan , and Lumbini , just ask on the Nepali side how to get there. Do not book bus tickets on the Indian side, these will most likely be fake. As I was on the direct bus from Varanasi to Kathmandu , when we got through the Sunauli border (by a hair as we were running late!) we just headed straight out to Kathmandu. That took us an extra 18 hours to reach there. It was a hell of a journey. Next time, I would head to Chitwan as it’s not so far. If you’re heading back into India via the Sunauli Border, you will need to get a local bus to Gorakhpur and then from Gorakhpur to Varanasi. We were waiting/hoping for an air-conditioned bus into Varanasi and we were told it was going to arrive at any minute. But, we waited two hours and then just decided to hop on a local bus. The journey from the Sunauli border to Varanasi took around 12 hours. It was horrendous, the bus driver had a gun pulled on him and there was a fight on the bus, but we made it back safe! This rust bucket took us from Gorakpur 10 hours to Varanasi, I’m surprised it made it Is travelling overland via the Sunauli Border worth it? In some ways travelling over the Sunauli border is worth it. It was cheaper than flying and it was a bit of an adventure, but I’m not sure if I would do it again. From Lumbini, the journey was a lot shorter but we had a local bus which was bumpy, hot, dirty, and pretty rough. At one point our bus driver got into a fistfight with an angry driver with road rage! Totally scary. Luckily, he was okay and seemed to just bounce back from getting punched 4 times in the head! But, I never got a local bus again after that. No way. If the traffic is quiet, it should only take you 15 hours to get from Varanasi to Kathmandu via the Sunauli border, which is pretty good. So, it’s all about how much time and budget you have. But above all else, the Sunauli Border was definitely an adventure. This is why I will treasure it as a funny memoir for my books! Having a laugh with the security guys while waiting for the AC bus which will ‘come at any moment’ Recommended Travel Resources Hotels: Booking.com Transport: RentalCars.com Trips & Tours: GetYourGuide Travel Insurance: World Nomads eSIM: Holafly – Read more of my Indian articles How to spend one day in Delhi My complete Varanasi travel guide Safety tips for Varanasi The ultimate Rajasthan itinerary First timers guide to Jaipur Things to do in Amritsar Photography guide for Jaipur A complete guide for Manali Exploring Leh Ladakh One week Kerala Itinerary North East India bucket list Things to do in Dharamshala Top tips for the Taj Mahal My complete guide for Rishikesh Things to do in Hampi Discover India SEE ALL MY INDIA GUIDES Read more posts on Nepal The ULTIMATE Kathmandu bucket list Garden of Dreams in Nepal What to expect before visiting Pashupatinath Temple Nepal bus guide A complete guide to Pokhara Why you need to visit Chitwan National Park A complete guide for Lumbini Taking an Everest Flight from Kathmandu Discover Nepal SEE ALL MY NEPAL GUIDES Save this Sunauli Border survival guide for later! 279 shares Share Tweet Pin Sophie Pearce Sophie Pearce is the founder of Third Eye Traveller. Always having a restless soul seeking adventure, she has now travelled to over 60+ countries, many of them solo. Leaving her heart in India, which gifted her a "Third Eye", she felt inspired to share her travel stories in the hope of encouraging others to find their inner magic and explore this beautiful world of ours. Even if it's on their own! Facebook X Instagram YouTube Pinterest Goodreads Post navigation Previous Previous Lumbini Travel Tips – Honest Tips for Visiting the Birthplace of Buddha! Next Continue Sri Lanka South Coast Guide – Galle, Unawatuna & Mirissa! Similar Posts Shillong Shopping Guide – Top Tips for Exploring the Bustling Bazaars! Everest Mountain Flight Tour – Is it Safe? Everything You Need to Know! 11 Best Reasons to Visit Cherrapunjee (Sohra) – India’s Scotland of the East! 7 Awesome Things to Do in Dirang (2026) – India’s Heaven on Earth! 15 Reasons Why Visiting Arunachal Pradesh in India Will Ruin Your Life! 8 Important Tips for Visiting the Chinese Fishing Nets in Kochi, Kerala 21 Comments Paddy says: February 1, 2019 at 11:42 pm Nice and helpful article! Every time I try to get information from http://www.redbus.in about the schedule for this route or try to book a ticket I get the message Oops! No buses found. I’ll keep trying but as of Feb 1, 2019 that’s an update you might like to have. Keep up teh good work! Reply Sophie Pearce says: February 2, 2019 at 10:03 am Hey there, thanks so much! I’ve just checked the website and it does seem to work. I put in the onward date as the 3rd Feb 2019 – Varanasi – Kathmandu and it comes up okay! It departs at 10pm and arrives at Kathmandu at 7pm the next day. tickets costs 1257 rupees probably without GST. It may be the day you’re putting it in as they go every other day. So, the next one after the 3rd Feb is 5th Feb. What day are you looking to go? It maybe too far in advance i.e. like a month from now? Hopefully you find your bus :) Sophie x Reply Sophie Pearce says: February 2, 2019 at 10:05 am Also, I’ve just checked the Kathmandu – Varanasi route and it comes up on the 4th Feb. Leaves at 7pm from Kathmandu and arrives at Varanasi 6pm the next day! Same price. I’m not sure if it does pick ups en route (i.e. at the Sunauli border). Hope this helps! Sophie x Reply Paddy says: February 6, 2019 at 11:54 pm Hi Sophie I think I’ve found out what the problem was: From trying many different dates, it seems that they only schedule the Varansi-Kathmandu bus on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays and allow bookings online for about 2 – 3 weeks ahead. So I can now see buses on those days up until up to February 26 but not after that. I was looking for dates in March. Reply Sophie Pearce says: February 7, 2019 at 11:44 am Ahh, that’s really good to know! I’ll update my blog with that info :), hopefully soon you can finally book it! It doesn’t usually get too full as it’s a long ride but around festival times it may do. Have fun! Sophie x Reply Paddy says: February 6, 2019 at 11:56 pm And many thanks for taking the time to respond! Reply Sophie Pearce says: February 7, 2019 at 11:45 am No worries, happy to help! Thanks, Sophie x Reply Gian says: February 6, 2020 at 4:40 pm Hi Sophie! Thank you for sharing your experience. Is the bus from Varanasi to Kathmandu that appears in https://www.redbus.in the government one? Because the website says “Asians Shina Tours And Travels” and it seems a private company… Reply Sophie Pearce says: February 6, 2020 at 4:49 pm Hi Gian, I’m looking myself and I’m shocked that I can’t see the one run by the government. I’ve also checked online to see the UPSRTC and they don’t seem to have the service. It seems as if the company has taken over the service as it’s the same price and goes at the same time as the Government service. I will do further research and come back to you to see if the Government service still runs. Thanks for letting me know, Sophie x Reply Gian says: February 8, 2020 at 6:48 pm Thank you so much Sophie for your reply. Very useful to know, waiting for you hoping you’ll find out something! Reply Sophie Pearce says: February 8, 2020 at 7:43 pm Hi Gian, still waiting on some responses but will let you know. It does look like this company have taken over the route so if you need to book the journey urgently I would go for it. But, can’t vouch for the bus being the same or the stops/service! Will keep you posted. Sophie x Reply Shivam says: May 20, 2020 at 7:16 pm Hey there, I just want to know that is there any check-post in sunauli where they inspect our luggage before passing by. Reply Sophie Pearce says: May 31, 2020 at 5:34 pm Hi Shivam, thank you for the heads up! Do you know when they scan your luggage? Is it as you walk under the border or as you’re heading into Immigration? Please let me know and I’ll update the post. Thanks, Sophie x Reply Ravi says: February 18, 2022 at 10:17 am It’s very useful information ! If you comfortable to guide me as I am reaching border at night . I want to go, lumbini same night ! Reply Sophie Pearce says: February 18, 2022 at 4:37 pm Hi Ravi, no worries. If you off at the Sunauli Border. I would suggest either getting a taxi or taking a bus from there to Lumbini as it’s much closer to the India/Nepal border than it would be to go from Kathmandhu. The only issue is knowing what time you will be arriving at the border. If it’s during the day, you shouldn’t have any issue getting a bus to Lumbini on the Nepalese side (getting one on the Indian side may be a scam). BUT, if your bus arrives at the Sunauli Border at night – I wouldn’t recommend it. There will be no buses until the morning. There are a few hotels in Sunauli but it’s a border town so it’s not great. I would always recommend crossing over into Nepal to book transport/hotels. As booking on the India side there are many scammers! Hope this helps. Sophie x Reply Aaaryan says: July 28, 2022 at 4:32 am Hey Sophie. I and my Malaysian Friend last time crossed India Nepal Border by land she faced many problems in Immigration, India. as we are going back to Varanasi this time so we are about to cross the Sanauli side. I wish to know more about Sanuali border India side Immigration. was all process smooth? any problem with stamping? Is there anything more they asked? Please share your experience in immigration. Thank you. Reply Sophie Pearce says: July 29, 2022 at 1:09 pm Hi Aaaryan, I replied to your email with more details! Sanauli Border is fine for crossing overland if you already have your tourist Visa! Just watch out for scams. You can catch a bus over the border to Varanasi but it will be a long journey. I’d try to book a ‘tourist’ bus if you can from Kathmandu! Thanks Sophie x Reply ddd says: April 10, 2023 at 6:14 pm ????? There are trains in Nepal What are you saying !!! The departure is Janakpur I took it many time be careful of wrong information !!! thanks ! Reply Sophie Pearce says: April 20, 2023 at 12:22 pm Hi, yes but this is a very recent thing! There wasn’t on my vist… Reply Soraya says: September 6, 2023 at 10:38 am Hello dear, thank you for this amazing post. So even after COVID still is possible to make a visa on arrival? I am brazilian crosding from India to Nepal this month. So I guess I wouldnt have time to make a e-visa once it takes 15 days. Reply Sophie Pearce says: January 1, 2025 at 1:06 pm Hi Soraya, It’s my understanding that overland visa’s are still possible at this time. But, I would check online for updates. Hope this helps. Sophie x Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ Hi, I'm Sophie, a UK-based solo female travel blogger. I love to visit places that look like they've been plucked from the pages of a fairytale. My site is a love letter to the whimsical, bookish, magical, and historical. I want to inspire you & turn your wildest travel dreams into a reality through my guides! About Sophie Follow on Instagram Facebook Pinterest YouTube TikTok Goodreads What can I help you find today? UNLOCK FREE MAGIC Get access to my travel resource library Sign up to unlock my FREE resource library with exclusive eBooks, packing lists, budget trackers and other fun goodies! Follow on Instagram Facebook Pinterest YouTube TikTok RSS Feed Goodreads Search ABOUT CONTACT PRIVACY POLICY Third Eye Traveller participates in various affiliate marketing programs. Third Eye Traveller is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. As an Amazon Associate, I earn from qualifying purchases. © 2026 Third Eye Traveller Scroll to top Scroll to top Start Here Shop About Toggle child menu Expand About Contact FAQs Work with me Blog Destinations Toggle child menu Expand Africa Toggle child menu Expand Egypt Morocco Americas Toggle child menu Expand USA Asia Toggle child menu Expand India Indonesia Japan Laos Malaysia Myanmar Nepal North East India Singapore Sri Lanka Thailand Vietnam Europe Toggle child menu Expand Austria Belgium Bosnia & Herzegovina Croatia Czech Republic England Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Kosovo Latvia Lithuania Malta Netherlands North Macedonia Travel Guide Northern Ireland Norway Poland Portugal Romania Russia Scotland Slovakia Slovenia Spain Sweden Switzerland Turkey Wales Middle East Toggle child menu Expand Jordan UAE Oceania Toggle child menu Expand Australia New Zealand Interests Toggle child menu Expand Blogging Books Castles and Palaces Dark & Obscure Filming Locations Game of Thrones Harry Potter Magically Travelling Merlin Outlander Solo Travel The Witcher Resources Toggle child menu Expand Travel Resources Blogging Resources Digital Planning Free Goodies Start a Blog Facebook Instagram TikTok Pinterest YouTube Toggle Menu Close Search for: Search
